README.md, before:

# Diogo's Master Thesis: Classa

- Title: **Classa: Uncovering Class Pollution in Python**
- Subtitle: **Measuring Class Pollution Vulnerabilities of 3000 Real-World Python Projects**
- Abstract:
  > Over the past few decades,
  > code reuse attacks have shown how malicious actors
  > can alter a program's intended execution flow
  > by taking advantage of benign code already present in the application.
  > Class Pollution in the Python programming language
  > is a novel variant of a code reuse attack,
  > which can enable a malicious party to surgically mutate a variable
  > in any part of the application
  > in order to trigger a change in its execution flow.
  >
  > However, until now,
  > little to no research has explored class pollution in detail,
  > and no tool is readily-available to detect it.
  > For this reason,
  > as part of this degree project,
  > a literature review on the causes and consequences of class pollution
  > has been conducted,
  > in addition to the methodical development of a tool
  > capable of detecting class pollution, Classa.
  >
  > Additionally, an empirical study on the prevalence of class pollution
  > in real-world Python code has been performed
  > by running Classa against a dataset of 3000 Python projects,
  > revealing, most notably, a critical vulnerability in a popular PyPI package
  > with more than 30 million downloads.
  > This vulnerability allowed for Denial of Service and Remote Code Execution,
  > having since been responsibly disclosed and patched.
  >
  > Altogether, the results revealed that while
  > not many real-world Python projects are susceptible to class pollution,
  > it is a vulnerability that must be accounted for when
  > building a secure application
  > due to the serious consequences it can lead to.

## Building

Building this project and its associated tool (Classa) requires Nix to be installed.
You can download Nix at the [NixOS website].

Once Nix is installed, run the following command in this project's root directory
to enter a development shell with all required dependencies:

```sh
nix develop -f shell.nix
```

You can expect this command to take longer the first time it is run,
given Nix might compile Pysa and other required dependencies.
In subsequent runs, entering the development shell should be significantly faster.

Once inside the development shell, you can compile Classa using cargo:

```sh
cd tool
cargo build --release
```

This will create a binary at `./target/release/classa`.
If you prefer, you can also run it using cargo, which will (re)build the binary when needed:

```sh
cargo run --release
```

## Usage

You can get an overview of Classa's functionality by running `classa --help`:

```
$ ./target/release/classa --help
Find class pollution in Python programs

Usage: classa [OPTIONS] <COMMAND>

Commands:
  analyse  Run analysis on a Python program and try to find class pollution
  e2e      Run an end-to-end pipeline, analysing the projects declared in the given dataset
  results  Parse results from a pysa run and summarise them
  label    Parse reports from a previous e2e run, show issues, and ask for appropriate labels
  summary  Parse reports from a previous e2e run, and compile it into a JSON file that be used for charts
  help     Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
      --pyre-path <PYRE_PATH>  Path to the pyre (Python) program. If not provided, tries to find it in PATH [env: PYRE_PATH=]
      --workdir <WORKDIR>      A path to the work directory to use, for storing files during the analysis and also final reports, when applicable [env: WORKDIR=]
      --keep-workdir           Whether to keep the work directory after exiting, instead of deleting it. This is implicitly true if the --workdir option is given [env: KEEP_WORKDIR=]
  -h, --help                   Print help
  -V, --version                Print version
```

You can get further help about each command by running `classa <COMMAND> --help`.

Below are some common commands you might want to run.
For simplicity, it is assumed the binary is named `classa`,
but you might want to use `./target/release/classa` or `cargo run --release --` instead.

You will certainly also want to set the `WORKDIR` environment variable,
or pass the `--workdir` argument,
otherwise the detailed results will be immediately deleted.

- **Analyse a single Python program that is already present in the file system:**

  ```sh
  classa analyse /path/to/project
  ```

- **Analyse projects in bulk from a dataset**  
  _Note: To generate a dataset, see the `data` directory of this repository._

  ```sh
  classa e2e /path/to/dataset.toml
  ```

  After the analysis is completed, detailed information about the results of each project
  can be found in their individual reports in the `<workdir>/reports` directory.

- **Label results present in an existing workdir**  
  _Note: Ensure the workdir is the same generated by a e2e run_

  ```sh
  classa label
  ```

- **Generate summary of an e2e analysis**  
  _Note: Ensure the workdir is the same generated by a e2e run_

  ```sh
  classa summary
  ```

  After running this command,
  a `summary.json` file inside the workdir will contain an overview of all analysed projects
  along with the issues found.

## Documents

All deliverables of this project, including compiled [Typst] documents,
can be found in the [releases tab] of this repository.
Each file is accompanied with a GPG signature (`.asc` files), which can be verified
using my public key at [gpg.diogotc.com].

<details>
<summary>Verification Instructions</summary>

1. Download my public key and import it into the GPG keystore:

   ```sh
   curl https://gpg.diogotc.com | gpg --import
   ```
2. (Optional) Validate that the fingerprint matches
   `111F 91B7 5F61 99D8 985B  4C70 12CF 31FD FF17 2B77`.
   You can view the fingerprint of all keys in your keyring using `gpg -k`.
3. Download file and signature from the releases tab.
4. Validate the signature using `gpg --verify <filename>.asc`.

</details>

## License

All the code is licensed under the [GPL-3.0-or-later license](./LICENSE.md), while the
documents in the `docs` directory are licensed under
[CC-BY-SA-4.0](./docs/LICENSE.md).

[NixOS website]: https://nixos.org/download/
[Typst]: https://typst.app/
[releases tab]: https://github.com/diogotcorreia/master-thesis/releases
[gpg.diogotc.com]: https://gpg.diogotc.com

Commit message:

docs: add mention of KTH-LangSec repository

README.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This work has been conducted as part of [KTH LangSec],
> and continues at the [KTH-LangSec/classa repository].
> This repository is now read-only.

---

# Diogo's Master Thesis: Classa

- Title: **Classa: Uncovering Class Pollution in Python**
- Subtitle: **Measuring Class Pollution Vulnerabilities of 3000 Real-World Python Projects**
- Abstract:
  > Over the past few decades,
  > code reuse attacks have shown how malicious actors
  > can alter a program's intended execution flow
  > by taking advantage of benign code already present in the application.
  > Class Pollution in the Python programming language
  > is a novel variant of a code reuse attack,
  > which can enable a malicious party to surgically mutate a variable
  > in any part of the application
  > in order to trigger a change in its execution flow.
  >
  > However, until now,
  > little to no research has explored class pollution in detail,
  > and no tool is readily-available to detect it.
  > For this reason,
  > as part of this degree project,
  > a literature review on the causes and consequences of class pollution
  > has been conducted,
  > in addition to the methodical development of a tool
  > capable of detecting class pollution, Classa.
  >
  > Additionally, an empirical study on the prevalence of class pollution
  > in real-world Python code has been performed
  > by running Classa against a dataset of 3000 Python projects,
  > revealing, most notably, a critical vulnerability in a popular PyPI package
  > with more than 30 million downloads.
  > This vulnerability allowed for Denial of Service and Remote Code Execution,
  > having since been responsibly disclosed and patched.
  >
  > Altogether, the results revealed that while
  > not many real-world Python projects are susceptible to class pollution,
  > it is a vulnerability that must be accounted for when
  > building a secure application
  > due to the serious consequences it can lead to.

## Building

Building this project and its associated tool (Classa) requires Nix to be installed.
You can download Nix at the [NixOS website].

Once Nix is installed, run the following command in this project's root directory
to enter a development shell with all required dependencies:

```sh
nix develop -f shell.nix
```

You can expect this command to take longer the first time it is run,
given Nix might compile Pysa and other required dependencies.
In subsequent runs, entering the development shell should be significantly faster.

Once inside the development shell, you can compile Classa using cargo:

```sh
cd tool
cargo build --release
```

This will create a binary at `./target/release/classa`.
If you prefer, you can also run it using cargo, which will (re)build the binary when needed:

```sh
cargo run --release
```

## Usage

You can get an overview of Classa's functionality by running `classa --help`:

```
$ ./target/release/classa --help
Find class pollution in Python programs

Usage: classa [OPTIONS] <COMMAND>

Commands:
  analyse  Run analysis on a Python program and try to find class pollution
  e2e      Run an end-to-end pipeline, analysing the projects declared in the given dataset
  results  Parse results from a pysa run and summarise them
  label    Parse reports from a previous e2e run, show issues, and ask for appropriate labels
  summary  Parse reports from a previous e2e run, and compile it into a JSON file that be used for charts
  help     Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
      --pyre-path <PYRE_PATH>  Path to the pyre (Python) program. If not provided, tries to find it in PATH [env: PYRE_PATH=]
      --workdir <WORKDIR>      A path to the work directory to use, for storing files during the analysis and also final reports, when applicable [env: WORKDIR=]
      --keep-workdir           Whether to keep the work directory after exiting, instead of deleting it. This is implicitly true if the --workdir option is given [env: KEEP_WORKDIR=]
  -h, --help                   Print help
  -V, --version                Print version
```

You can get further help about each command by running `classa <COMMAND> --help`.

Below are some common commands you might want to run.
For simplicity, it is assumed the binary is named `classa`,
but you might want to use `./target/release/classa` or `cargo run --release --` instead.

You will certainly also want to set the `WORKDIR` environment variable,
or pass the `--workdir` argument,
otherwise the detailed results will be immediately deleted.

- **Analyse a single Python program that is already present in the file system:**

  ```sh
  classa analyse /path/to/project
  ```

- **Analyse projects in bulk from a dataset**  
  _Note: To generate a dataset, see the `data` directory of this repository._

  ```sh
  classa e2e /path/to/dataset.toml
  ```

  After the analysis is completed, detailed information about the results of each project
  can be found in their individual reports in the `<workdir>/reports` directory.

- **Label results present in an existing workdir**  
  _Note: Ensure the workdir is the same generated by a e2e run_

  ```sh
  classa label
  ```

- **Generate summary of an e2e analysis**  
  _Note: Ensure the workdir is the same generated by a e2e run_

  ```sh
  classa summary
  ```

  After running this command,
  a `summary.json` file inside the workdir will contain an overview of all analysed projects
  along with the issues found.

## Documents

All deliverables of this project, including compiled [Typst] documents,
can be found in the [releases tab] of this repository.
Each file is accompanied with a GPG signature (`.asc` files), which can be verified
using my public key at [gpg.diogotc.com].

<details>
<summary>Verification Instructions</summary>

1. Download my public key and import it into the GPG keystore:

   ```sh
   curl https://gpg.diogotc.com | gpg --import
   ```
2. (Optional) Validate that the fingerprint matches
   `111F 91B7 5F61 99D8 985B  4C70 12CF 31FD FF17 2B77`.
   You can view the fingerprint of all keys in your keyring using `gpg -k`.
3. Download file and signature from the releases tab.
4. Validate the signature using `gpg --verify <filename>.asc`.

</details>

## License

All the code is licensed under the [GPL-3.0-or-later license](./LICENSE.md), while the
documents in the `docs` directory are licensed under
[CC-BY-SA-4.0](./docs/LICENSE.md).

[KTH LangSec]: https://github.com/KTH-LangSec
[KTH-LangSec/classa repository]: https://github.com/KTH-LangSec/classa
[NixOS website]: https://nixos.org/download/
[Typst]: https://typst.app/
[releases tab]: https://github.com/diogotcorreia/master-thesis/releases
[gpg.diogotc.com]: https://gpg.diogotc.com
